I'm going to talk about simulation in this
lecture.
Simulation's a very important topic for
statistics and
for a number of other applications, so I
just want to introduce some of the
functions in
R that can be useful for doing simulation.
So, there are a couple of functions that
are available for simulating numbers or
variables from given probability
distributions, probably the
most important of which is the normal
distribution.
And so we can generate variates
from the normal distribution by specifying
a mean and a
standard deviation for that distribution
and then calling the rnorm function.
So the rnorm function will simulate normal
random variables that
from a distribution has a given mean and
standard deviation.
So the, there's a cor, there are
corresponding functions for the R, for the
normal
distribution that can be used to evaluate
the probability density, to evaluate the
cumulative distribution
function and for also for evaluating the
quantile function.
So, another function for generating random
variables is the rpoirs function or the,
which generates Poisson random variables
from
a Poisson distribution with a given rate.
And so, so there are number of functions
for generating
random variables from the, from kind of
the standard probability distributions.
And you can use these to do, to run
simulations.
So, probability distribution functions ha,
there
are basically four functions associated
with them.
And so for any given distribution like the
normal distribution there will be a
function that
starts with the d, a function that starts
with an r, a p, and a q.
So there'll be four different functions
for each distribution.
So we've ready, I've already mentioned
that there's the rnorm function.
The rnorm function is for generating the,
is for random number generation.
There's a dnorm
function, which evaluates the density of
the probability
dist distribution for given mean and
standard deviation.
There's the pnorm function, which
evaluates the cumulative distribution.
And there's the qnorm function, which
evaluates the quantile function.
So every distribution has these four types
of functions.
So for the gamma distribution, there'll be
a
dgamma, an rgamma, pgamma, and a qgamma
function.
And for the Poisson distribution
there's the rpoise dpoise ppoise, and
qpoise functions.
So working with the normal distribution
re, requires these four functions.
So I mentioned there's dnorm, pnorm,
qnorm, and, and rnorm, and
you can see they each take a number of
different parameters.
All the functions have required that you
specify the mean and
the standard deviation, because that's
what specifies the actual probability
distribution.
If you do not specify them, then the
default values are a
distribution, a standard normal
distribution, which
has mean zero and standard deviation one.
For the dnorm function the, you wa you can
evaluate the density.
And there's an optional, there's a,
there's an option
that allows you to evaluate the log of the
density.
Most of the time, when you evaluate the
density function for
a normal distribution, you're going to
want to use the log of that value.
But the default is false.
For the pnorm function and the qnorm
function there's
also an option to evaluate it on a log
scale.
but, but, but another option
is to evaluate, is whether or not you
want to evaluate the lower tail of the
distribution.
So the lower tail, which is the default,
is the kind, if you think of
it, if you look at the probability
distribution
it's the part that goes to the left.
It's the lower tail.
If you want to evaluate the upper tail,
sometimes you want to do this.
Then you want to say lower tail equals
false, and
that will evaluate the upper tail of the
distribution.
And finally for rnorm, there's only
two parameters, mean and standard
deviation, and
an n, which is the number of random
variables that you want to generate.
So if n is 100, you'll get a vector of
100 numbers that are drawn from the, from
the normal distribution.
So just to be more explicit, if phi
is the cumulative distribution function
for the standard normal
distribution, then pnorm is equal then to
phi and
qnorm is equal then to the inverse of phi.
So, just to quickly, if you want to
generate some random normal ren, er,
variates.
You can just rnorm and pass in an integer,
which is the number of variables you want
to generate.
So here I'm passing ten.
And you can see that the vector that's
produced will be
random, normal numbers which have mean
zero and standard deviation one.
If I wanted to generate a vector that had
mean 20 and standard
deviation two, I, I just need to specify
that explicitly in my call
to rnorm.
So here, this vector has a, is, are, ten
random normal vi, sorry, normal
random variables and their mean is roughly
20 and their stand deviation is two.
So when you, any time you simulate random
numbers wi, from any distribution
for any purpose, it's very important that
you set the random number generator seed.
And this can be done
with the set dot seed function.
So, what's important to know that on
computers when you generate random
numbers, the
numbers are not actually random but they
appear random and that's the important
thing.
And, if so the idea is that if you wanted
to generate the same set of
random numbers again, you could if you
wanted
to because the numbers are not actually
random.
They're called, they're wit, they're what
are called pseudo random numbers.
And so here I'm setting the seed to be
one.
So the seed can be any integer you want.
You just pass in an integer, and that's
the seed.
So here I'm going to set seed equal to
one.
And then I'm going to generate five ra,
random normal random variables.
And so here I've got my ran, my five
normal random variables.
They have mean zero and standard deviation
one.
If I generate another five, you'll see
that the vector
is totally different, because it's another
random sample of five.
However if I reset the seed to be one,
and I draw five again, you'll see that
they're
exactly the same as the first five that I
drew.
So anytime you, so when you set the seed
it kind
of sets the, the sequence of random
variable that's just going to occur.
And if you reset the seed, you kind of set
the sequence to go back to
where you started, and then it will
continue
to kind of generate random variables from
there.
so, this is important because it allows
for
you to reproduce random numbers that you
generate.
Now that might sound strange, because why
would you
want to, to re, generate the same random
numbers twice?
But in many applications you do want to
generate the same
random numbers twice so that people can
reproduce what you've done.
And particular if there are some errors or
problems in what you've done, you want to
be
able to get, just to kind of go
back to the exact situation that produced
those problems.
So whenever you do a simulation, you
always want to
set the random number c, so that you can
go
back and get the same results.
So I've demonstrated how to generate
normal random variables, but
of course you can generate
random variables for other probability
distributions.
So the Poisson distribution is of course
very popular.
Here I'm generating a ten Poisson random
variables with the rate of one.
And and so of course Poisson data are
going to be integer.
Here I'm generating a pois, ten Poisson
random variables at
the rate of two, so you can see they're
slightly larger.
And then here I'm generating ten
random variables Poisson random variables
with a, with a rate of 20.
And so, so for the Poisson distribution,
the mean is going to be equal to the rate.
So you can see that roughly in each of
these three
cases, the mean is roughly equal to the
rate that I specified.
I could also evaluate the cumulative
distribution function for the Poisson
distribution.
So here I'm in this first example I
want to know
what is the probability that a Poisson
random variable is
less than or equal to two if the rate is
two.
And so this is the probability.
It's 0.67 roughly.
If I wanted to know what's the probability
that, that a Poisson random
variable with rate two is less than four,
less than or equal to four.
You can see the probability's getting
bigger.
And here I can see the probability that a
Poisson random variable is less than six.
Less than or equal to six, and it's very
close to one.
So the cumulative distribution allows you
to, to evaluate these probabilities.